---
layout: post
title: One year later, I still think uv is the best package manager
---

Uv was the best thing that had happened to Python. Used it for over one year now. Good time to reflect on what makes it stand out of the crowd.

<!--more-->

I’ve switched to uv for all of my Python projects—both legacy and new—over the past year. It offers many interesting features, but I’ve narrowed it down to three that make it an absolute joy to use.

### It can manage Python versions

Not only UV can install dependencies, but can also install Python (-s). Great dev-ex, one command for both. An example - I constantly switch between 3 Python apps, all with different Python versions. With UV, I can go to project's dir, run:

```bash
uv run pytest tests
```

and it <u>installs / switches to project's Python</u>. Infers straight from `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[project]
requires-python = ">=3.12,<3.14"
```

`uv run` will pull-in Python 3.13, at most. No need for a separate tool like pyenv, on top pyenv [does not understand](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/issues/1233) `pyproject.toml`'s Python.

### It is fast

Faster than pip, or frankly any package manager. It feels <u>real-time</u>. Because of Rust™. Speed is rarely a tradeoff (from a user point of view).

### It can spin-up virtual envs on the fly (the script mode)

A year ago I thought [this one was a killer feature](https://valatka.dev/2025/01/12/on-killer-uv-feature.html). Putting it last though, I used it a few times. Nontheless, cool. Here's a situation I had - I was debugging some parallel http calls, it was convenient to just run the script with:

```bash
uvx --python 3.13 --with pandas test_concurrent_calls.py
```

Pulled-in Py13 + Pandas. Slight difference from a year ago - change `uv -> uvx`, to leave no venv trace. Neat, right? 

### Cons?
I've yet to find any. Once I couldn't install some Torch dependency because UV kept insisting incompatibility with my system. That's useful though, but I knew what I was doing and got blocked. Conda packages? Unsupported, but didn't need those, at least for production apps.

To another year - now, please improve (speed of) [type checking](https://github.com/astral-sh/ty) 🐍.


